hi I'm Sheila Kaufman cooking teacher
author of 26 cookbooks food editor and
culinary lecturer
I'm here today to share some of my
favorite recipes for the Jewish High
Holidays Rosh Hashanah and Yom Kippur
with you all three recipes that we're
going to do can be made ahead and frozen
there's some hints and tips to make
baking and cooking easier for you and I
wanted to tell you just a little bit
about the High Holidays if you're not
familiar with them Rosh Hashanah is the
head of the Jewish New Year rosh means
head and on Rosh Hashanah we have a
celebratory meal and it usually consists
of chicken soup fulfill two fish I'd
like to tell you I made this kafeel to
fish myself but Kadhim did we're going
to have homemade challah apples dipped
in honey which is a tradition on New
Year's to help celebrate a happy and
sweet New Year's in the old days apples
were thought to be medicinal and had
healing properties so they were given as
gifts to people who were ill we're
always going to have chicken or brisket
and kugel and for dessert honey cake
again for a happy sweet new year or
Jewish apple cake now up until recently
I've always served Manischewitz wine
which some men and some women consider
too sweet for the holidays but now there
are kosher wines from Italy and
California for those who have a more of
a select palate so this will be a
special treat to serve at this New Year
celebration the houses are usually made
round to indicate the year in nature or
a cyclical that it will be a happy
healthy new year for us some Jewish
people do not eat bitter or sour foods
during the High Holidays
and others do not eat foods made with
nuts because the Hebrew word the
numerical value of the Hebrew word for
nuts is the same as the Hebrew numerical
value for sin so some people avoid those
but today we're going to make a
wonderful challah a little bit unusual
because it has saffron in it this is my
friend Jackie Banaras recipe we're going
to make Eileen's absolutely utterly
fabulous noodle kugel and we're going to
make my Jewish apple cake we're going to
be working with some knives we're going
to be working with the oven the stove
boiling water and an apple corer which
can be lethal if you're not careful you
don't need a lot of fancy tools or Kouta
mints you're going to need a hand and a
stand mixer you're going to need a
cutting board you're going to need a
strainer you're going to need rubber
spatula you're going to need some baking
pans you're going to need measuring cups
and measuring spoons and bowls for
Jackie's challah you need a tablespoon
of yeast and a tablespoon of sugar now
listen carefully because you need 1/2 a
cup of warm water and a half a cup of
sugar then you need 1/2 a cup of boiling
water and 1/4 cup of canola oil a
teaspoon of salt and a pinch of saffron
a large whole egg 1 egg white and save
the yolk 1/4 cup of cold water and 5 to
6 cups of bread flour but you could use
all-purpose flour for your egg wash you
need the egg yolk you saved mixed with a
teaspoon of water I've been a traveling
cooking teacher for the past 40 years
from Alaska and Hawaii Maine to Mexico
written 26 cookbooks and I travel around
trying to take the intimidation out of
cooking and entertaining my philosophy
is simply irresistible easy elegant
fearless fuss less cooking and that
means that most recipes only take 20 to
30 minutes preparation time don't use
any fancy equipment don't make a big
tastes fabulous and your friends
probably don't have the recipe so come
and join me in the kitchen as we begin
our culinary adventure with a fabulous
hallo to watch the other segments in
this video series or for how-to videos
on almost any other topic visit monkey
seed dot-com